MY FIRST GUEST MADE HISTORY THIS
FALL AS THE YOUNGEST WOMAN EVER
ELECTED TO THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
PLEASE WELCOME BACK TO "THE LATE
SHOW," NOW CONGRESSWOMAN
ALEXANDRIA OCASIO-CORTEZ!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
( BAND PLAYING )
>> OH, MY GOSH!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: PLEASE, PLEASE --
I'LL SIT DOWN HERE, TOO.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
OH, MY GOSH!
>> Stephen: NICE TO SEE YOU
AGAIN.
>> NICE TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
>> Stephen: WE LOVED HAVING
YOU HERE LAST TIME.
THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
GLAD YOU'RE BACK IN.
>> NO MUST BE NICE TO BE BACK IN
A CITY THAT UNDERSTANDS YOU.
>> IT'S REALLY NICE TO BE BACK
( LAUGHTER )
>> Stephen: CONGRATULATIONS.
SINCE THE LAST TIME WE SAW YOU,
OBVIOUSLY, YOU WERE ELECTED.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
I HAVE A COUPLE OF PHOTOGRAPHS.
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: WHAT'S DAY ONE
LIKE WHEN YOU GO TO CONGRESS?
I HAVE A PHOTO OF YOU BEING
SWORN IN RIGHT THERE.
>> YES, YES, YES.
>> Stephen: THERE YOU ARE WITH
THE NOW SPEAKER AGAIN RIGHT
THERE.
AND WHO IS THIS YOUNG WOMAN
RIGHT HERE?
>> THAT'S MY MOTHER.
>> Stephen: OH, HOW LOVELY.
YEAH.
>> Stephen: YOUR MOM GOT TO
HOLD THE BIBLE?
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: SO NICE.
IT WAS GREAT.
>> Stephen: I UNDERSTAND
SOTOMAYOR WAS A BIT OF AN
INSPIRATION FOR YOU.
>> YES, I THOUGHT ABOUT WHAT I
WAS GOING TO WEAR BECAUSE I KNEW
MY KNEELS WERE WATCHING, AND I
WANTED THEM TO KIND OF BE ABLE
TO INT V AN IMAGE IN THEIR MIND,
AND, SO, I WORE WHITE FOR THE
SUFFRAGETTES.
AND WHEN SONIA SOTOMAYOR WAS
HAVING HER CONFIRMATION
HEARINGS, THE CONSULTANTS TOLL
HER TO WEAR A NUDE NAIL POLISH
BECAUSE WEARING A BRIGHT COLOR
WOULD ATTRACT MORE SCRUTINY.
SO SHE WORE BRIGHT RED NAILS.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
AND I FIGURED, WHY NOT?
YOU KNOW, THAT WAS ANOTHER GREAT
TRADITION.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: I THINK IT WAS
AFTER YOUR FIRST WEEK IN OFFICE
THERE, YOU INSTAGRAMED THIS.
CAN YOU TELL US WHAT'S GOING ON
HERE?
>> SO IT WAS A REALLY BUSY DAY,
AND I GOT HOME SUPER LATE AND I
JUST WANTED TO EAT ICE CREAM AND
MAYBE SKIP DINNER.
( LAUGHTER )
>> Stephen: AND YOU WERE ASKED
ONLINE WHAT FLAVOR ICE CREAM YOU
WERE EATING THERE.
>> IT WAS AMERICOAN DREAM.
IT WAS.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: THERE YOU GO.
YOU FOUND IT OUT, TOO.
>> Stephen: CHEERS.
PLINK!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
I WANT TO WARN THE ACEAFFILIATES
WHO MIGHT BE GOING LONG, YOU GET
ELECTED, YOU GO IN THERE, YOUR
FIRST DAY IN CONGRESS, THE
GOVERNMENT IS SHUT DOWN.
WHAT THE -- WHAT THE HECK IS
THAT LIKE?
>> I MEAN, BASICALLY --
( LAUGHTER )
-- IT'S, LIKE -- WELL, WHAT I
WILL SAY IS THERE ARE A LOT OF
THINGS WE CAN'T DO AS FRESHMAN
MEMBERS.
AROUND 100 NEW MEMBERS OF BOTH
PARTIES THAT ARE COMING TO
CONGRESS AND WE CAN'T PROPERLY
SET UP OUR DISTRICT OFFICES, WE
CAN'T GET LAPTOPS DELIVERED, WE
CAN'T START DOING THE WORK WE'RE
ELECTED TO DO.
>> Stephen: IT TAKES THE GREEN
STUFF.
>> YEAH, AND THOSE WORKERS ARE
FURLOUGHED.
SO THE DOWN SIDE IS THAT WE'RE
NOT ABLE TO GET TO WORK AS MUCH
AS WE WANT TO IN THE BEGINNING,
BUT THE BRIGHT SIDE IS IT GIVES
US A LOT MORE FREE TIME TO MAKE
TROUBLE.
( LAUGHTER )
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
YEAH.
>> Stephen: BECAUSE, YOU KNOW
WHAT THEY SAY, IDLE HANDS ARE
THE DEVIL'S LEGISLATIVE AGENDA.
( LAUGHTER )
>> THAT IS RIGHT.
THAT IS CORRECT.
>> Stephen: YEAH.
AND I SAID WE COULDN'T DO
THIS SO WE HAD TO FIND THE
PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
SO CONGRESSWOMAN KATY HILL HAD
CO-WRITTEN A LETTER WITH SUSAN
LEE AND WE SAID WE NEED TO GIVE
IT TO MITCH McCONNELL AND LET
HIM CALL THE VOTE.
WE KNOW WE HAVE ENOUGH VOTES TO
OPEN THE GOVERNMENT.
IT'S DONALD TRUMP AND MITCH
McCONNELL VERSUS THE REST OF
THE WORLD.
SO WE'RE, LIKE, WE'RE GOING TO
FIND HIM.
SO WE WENT TO HIS CAPITOL HILL
OFFICE, HIS SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER OFFICE, HE WASN'T THERE.
THEN WE SAID, WELL, LET'S GO
EVERYWHERE HE COULD POSSIBLY BE.
SO WE WENT TO THE CLOAK ROOM,
WHICH IS KIND OF LIKE A SNACK
ROOM FOR THE REPUBLICANS.
( LAUGHTER )
WE WENT TO THE SENATE FLOOR, AND
SENATOR JEFF MERKLY SUBMITTED
OUR LETTER TO THE FLOOR.
SOME OF THE INCUMBENTS SAY THIS
IS THE FIRST TIME THEY REMEMBER
HOUSE MEMBERS GOING TO THE
SENATE FLOOR SINCE ABOUT 1992
FOR THE ANITA HILL HEARINGS IS
THE LAST TIME SOME RECALL THAT
HAPPENING.
WE WENT TO THE CONSTITUENT
OFFICE IN THE RUSSELL BUILDING,
WE TOOK THE TRAIN THEY HAD.
>> Stephen: THERE'S A LITTLE
TRAIN UNDERNEATH THE CAPITOL.
>> EXACTLY.
AND THAT'S WHERE WE STARTED THE
HASHTAG #WHERE'S MITCH, BECAUSE
WHERE IS HE?
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: DID YOU GO TO THE
SENATE FLOOR AND YELL OLLIE
OLLIE OXEN FREE?
>> THAT'S MY PLAN WHEN I GO
BACK.
>> Stephen: SO YOU HAVE BEEN
CALLED A MEDIA VIRTUOSO.
PEOPLE COMPARED TO THE OTHER
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, CERTAINLY
SOME OF THEM.
AS I WAS SAYING, YOU HAD A
LITTLE LESSON TO TEACH OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
TO CATCH THEM UP ON SOCIAL
MEDIA.
WHAT WERE THE LESS SUBPOENAS
LIKE?
WAS IT LIKE THE POWER BUTTON IS
THE THING TO --
( LAUGHTER )
WHAT WERE YOU TEACHING THEM?
>> I GIVE THEM MORE OF MY
GENERAL THEORY AND APPROACH TO
SOCIAL MEDIA.
I SAID, YOU KNOW, RULE NUMBER
ONE IS TO BE AUTHENTIC, TO BE
YOURSELF AND DON'T TRY TO BE
ANYONE THAT YOU'RE NOT.
SO DON'T TRY TO TALK LIKE A
YOUNG KID IF YOU'RE NOT A YOUNG
KID.
DON'T POST A MEME IF YOU DON'T
KNOW WHAT A MEME IS, IS
LITERALLY MY ADVICE, AND I SAID
DON'T TALK LIKE THE FOUNDING
FATHERS ON TWITTER.
IF YOU'RE A MOM WHO LIKES TO
GARDEN, TALK LIKE THAT, AND
THAT'S ALL YOU'VE GOT TO DO.
>> Stephen: YOU'VE HAD A GOOD
RECORD OF RESPONDING TO PEOPLE
WHO ARE CRITICIZING YOU ON
SOCIAL MEDIA.
HOW DO YOU CHOOSE WHO YOU GO
GIVE THE BUSINESS TO?
BECAUSE NO FREE RIDES.
>> YEAH.
>> Stephen: SOME PEOPLE MIGHT
BE COMING AFTER YOU FOR THE
ATTENTION.
>> I THINK IT'S AN OVERLAP OF A
COUPLE OF DIFFERENT FACTORS.
ONE, IS IT A NOTABLE PERSON?
USUALLY ARE THEY VERIFIED?
BECAUSE I JUST DON'T WANT TO GO
AFTER SOME INNOCENT BYSTANDER
HERE.
>> Stephen: SURE.
BUT I THINK IF YOU'RE
VERIFIED ON THE PLATFORM, IF YOU
HAVE A BLUE CHECK, YOU'RE KIND
OF SIGNING UP TO BE PART OF THE
PUBLIC DISCOURSE.
IF YOU HAVE A BLUE CHECK, IF
YOU'RE IN MY MENTIONS, IF YOU'RE
BEING SASSY IN A WAY THAT I
THINK IS UNJUSTIFIED, AND IF I
HAVEN'T EATEN IN TWO TO THREE
HOURS, IT'S LIKE THAT
COMBINATION IS --
>> Stephen: SO THE LESS YOU
EAT, THE FIERCER YOU ARE ON
SOCIAL MEDIA?
>> OH, FOR SURE, FOR SURE,
EXACTLY.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: CUT OFF.
( LAUGHTER )
WE HAVE TO TAKE A LITTLE BIT OF
A BREAK RIGHT NOW, BUT IF YOU
CAN STICK AROUND, YO I WANT TO T
TO YOU ABOUT YOUR IDEA TO TAX
RICH GUYS LIKE ME.
WE'LL BE RIGHT BACK,
CONGRESSWOMAN ALEXANDRIA
OCASIO-CORTEZ!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )